---
title: "Scrum Team"
updated: 02/05/2023
---

The fundamental unit of Scrum is a small team of people, a Scrum Team. The Scrum Team consists of one [Scrum Master](/guides/scrum/team/po), one [Product Owner](/guides/scrum/team/po), and [Developers](/guides/scrum/team/developers). Within a Scrum Team, there are no sub-teams or hierarchies. It is a cohesive unit of professionals focused on one objective at a time, the [Product Goal](/guides/scrum/artifacts/pbl#commitment-product-goal).

Scrum Teams are cross-functional, meaning the members have all the skills necessary to create value each [Sprint](/guides/scrum/events/sprint). They are also self-managing, meaning they internally decide who does what, when, and how.

The Scrum Team is small enough to remain nimble and large enough to complete significant work within a [Sprint](/guides/scrum/events/sprint), typically 10 or fewer people. In general, we have found that smaller teams communicate better and are more productive. If Scrum Teams become too large, they should consider reorganizing into multiple cohesive Scrum Teams, each focused on the same product. Therefore, they should share the same [Product Goal](/guides/scrum/artifacts/pbl#commitment-product-goal), [Product Backlog](/guides/scrum/artifacts/pbl), and [Product Owner](/guides/scrum/team/po).

The Scrum Team is responsible for all product-related activities from [stakeholder](/guides/scrum/stakeholders) collaboration, verification, maintenance, operation, experimentation, research and development, and anything else that might be required. They are structured and empowered by the organisation to manage their own work. Working in [Sprints](/guides/scrum/events/sprint) at a sustainable pace improves the Scrum Team’s focus and consistency.

The entire Scrum Team is accountable for creating a valuable, useful Increment every [Sprint](/guides/scrum/events/sprint). Scrum defines three specific accountabilities within the Scrum Team: the [Developers](/guides/scrum/team/developers), the [Product Owner](/guides/scrum/team/po), and the [Scrum Master](/guides/scrum/team/po).
