---
title: Ground Rules
project: TAGOS
---

Developing a bespoke business operating system which can work well for startups or at scale is a challenging undertaking. The very [character of the organization](./character) must align with being agile, resilient, resourceful, professional, innovative, and \[ fill in the blank \]. For that reason TAGOS defines three ground rules which feed those positive characteristics and should be agreed and adhered to everyone within the organization:

<!-- :GroundRules -->

## Rule: Contribute positively

We believe that everyone should put forward their best effort for the day while acknowledging that everyone has some days which are better than others. This means being willing to learn, grow, and improve, and to bring a positive and constructive attitude to everything we do while also searching for ways to innovate and reduce workloads so that meaningful rather than menial work can be done to remain organisationally competitive.

## Rule: Support each other

To work as a team, we must look out for each other and the organisation. This means being willing to support, help and trust each other. Furthermore, as cohorts we need to prioritize the success of the organisation over individual interests while not placing undue pressure on people by maintaining a sustainable pace across the organisation.

## Rule: Go home happy

We believe that every member of an organisation has the basic right to go home happy and fulfilled from a productive and enjoyable time at work. This means that we prioritize creating a positive and supportive work environment that promotes well-being, happiness, and fulfillment. We encourage all team members to take care of all aspects of their health.

## Summing up

By agreeing to these ground-rules, members of the organisation can work together more effectively and develop a shared culture of agility and collaboration. These values are central to the TAGOS framework and are essential for creating a successful and sustainable agile organisation.
