---
title: "Scrum Definition"
updated: 02/05/2023
---

::ScrumGuideExcerpt{fragment="#scrum-definition"}
Scrum is a lightweight framework that helps people, teams and organisations generate value through adaptive solutions for complex problems.
In a nutshell, Scrum requires a [Scrum Master](/guides/scrum/team/po) to foster an environment where:

- A [Product Owner](/guides/scrum/team/po) orders the work for a complex problem into a [Product Backlog](/guides/scrum/artifacts/pbl).
- The [Scrum Team](/guides/scrum/team/) turns a selection of the work into an Increment of value during a [Sprint](/guides/scrum/events/sprint).
- The [Scrum Team](/guides/scrum/team/) and its [stakeholders](/guides/scrum/stakeholders) inspect the results and adjust for the next [Sprint](/guides/scrum/events/sprint).
- Repeat
::

::ScrumGuideExcerpt{fragment="#scrum-definition"}
Scrum is simple. Try it as is and determine if its philosophy, theory, and structure help to achieve goals and create value. The Scrum framework is purposefully incomplete, only defining the parts required to implement Scrum theory. Scrum is built upon by the collective intelligence of the people using it. Rather than provide people with detailed instructions, the rules of Scrum guide their relationships and interactions.
::

::ScrumGuideExcerpt{fragment="#scrum-definition"}
Various processes, techniques and methods can be employed within the framework. Scrum wraps around existing practices or renders them unnecessary. Scrum makes visible the relative efficacy of current management, environment, and work techniques, so that improvements can be made.
::

## Study Questions

1) What is Scrum?
2) What does Scrum do for people, teams and organisations?
3) What role is required to foster the Scrum Environment?
4) What three environmental outcomes should be fostered?
5) Why would one try Scrum as is first?
6) What is Scrum built upon?
7) Why is the Scrum Guide purposefully incomplete?
8) Instead of detailed instructions, what do the rules of Scrum do?
