---
title: "Sprint Backlog"
updated: 02/05/2023
---

The Sprint Backlog is composed of the Sprint Goal (why), the set of [Product Backlog](/guides/scrum/artifacts/pbl) items selected for the Sprint (what), as well as an actionable plan for delivering the Increment (how).

The Sprint Backlog is a plan by and for the [Developers](/guides/scrum/team/developers). It is a highly visible, real-time picture of the work that the [Developers](/guides/scrum/team/developers) plan to accomplish during the Sprint in order to achieve the Sprint Goal. Consequently, the Sprint Backlog is updated throughout the Sprint as more is learned. It should have enough detail that they can inspect their progress in the Daily Scrum.

## Commitment: Sprint Goal

The Sprint Goal is the single objective for the Sprint. Although the Sprint Goal is a commitment by the [Developers](/guides/scrum/team/developers), it provides flexibility in terms of the exact work needed to achieve it. The Sprint Goal also creates coherence and focus, encouraging the [Scrum Team](/guides/scrum/team/) to work together rather than on separate initiatives.

The Sprint Goal is created during the Sprint Planning event and then added to the Sprint Backlog. As the [Developers](/guides/scrum/team/developers) work during the Sprint, they keep the Sprint Goal in mind. If the work turns out to be different than they expected, they collaborate with the [Product Owner](/guides/scrum/team/po) to negotiate the scope of the Sprint Backlog within the Sprint without affecting the Sprint Goal.
