---
title: Organisational Character
project: TAGOS
---

- Character works as an internal motivator and holds those with strong character to account;
- Agility is either a part of the organisational characteristic or it is not;
- When agility is a genuine organisational characteristic, organisations thrive.
- When it is not, agility becomes another bureaucratic process without any real benefits.

Agility as Character is an important concept pioneered by the @squibler for this framework.

Character works as an internal motivator for determining what is or is not acceptable. It relies on principles and self-regulation rather than rules or processes.

Organisational values should in turn develop on those characteristics.

Take integrity as an example, if characterized as being an organisation of integrity - then making sure that the company has integrity is imperative, it flows through the organisational decision making process. If someone suggests falsifying a report to improve investment opportunities - it would not sit right in such an organisation.

Agility is similar in many ways - if a company characterizes itself as agile then it will make sure the entire company is looking to reduce bureaucracy and process bloat, streamlining it's operations - not just in one siloed area like software development - but across the entire business.

Character enforces identity it is the internal driver holding an organisation accountable to itself.

The foundations of TAGOS are:

## Trust others and be trustworthy

Trust is essential in any successful agile organisation. In TAGOS, we believe in creating an environment where team members trust each other to do their best work and to support each other when needed. We strive to be trustworthy ourselves and to create a culture where trust is valued and prioritized. [Develop Trust](/framework/character/trust)

## Remove waste and prevent confusion

Complexity can be a major obstacle to agility. To remove waste and prevent confusion, we believe in keeping things simple and breaking complex problems down into smaller, more manageable steps. This includes the way our organisations are organised as well as the way we develop products since all aspects can be both complex and complicated.

## Help each other out

In TAGOS, we believe in fostering a culture of collaboration and experimentation. We encourage team members to help each other out, even if it means trying something new or stepping outside their comfort zone. By supporting each other and being open to new ideas, we can achieve more together than we ever could alone. We also believe that every team member has a role to play in supporting the success of the organisation. In TAGOS, we encourage team members to always be on the lookout for ways to make each other's jobs a little easier. By supporting each other in this way, we can create a more productive, efficient, and collaborative work environment.

## Peers hold each other accountable

Accountability is a critical component of agile development. In TAGOS, we believe in creating a culture where team members hold each other accountable for their work, rather than relying on managers to enforce accountability. By empowering team members to hold each other accountable, we can create a more self-sustaining and effective organisation.

## Raise concerns and support decisions

Communication is key to successful agile development. In TAGOS, we encourage team members to raise concerns and support decisions in a constructive and respectful manner. By fostering a culture of open communication and collaboration, we can ensure that everyone's voice is heard and that decisions are made in the best interests of the organisation.
