---
title: "Sprint Planning"
updated: 02/05/2023
---

Sprint Planning initiates the Sprint by laying out the work to be performed for the Sprint. This resulting plan is created by the collaborative work of the entire [Scrum Team](/guides/scrum/team/).
The [Product Owner](/guides/scrum/team/po) ensures that attendees are prepared to discuss the most important [Product Backlog](/guides/scrum/artifacts/pbl) items and how they map to the [Product Goal](/guides/scrum/artifacts/pbl#commitment-product-goal). The [Scrum Team](/guides/scrum/team/) may also invite other people to attend Sprint Planning to provide advice.
Sprint Planning addresses the following topics:

## Topic One: Why is this Sprint valuable?

The [Product Owner](/guides/scrum/team/po) proposes how the product could increase its value and utility in the current Sprint. The whole [Scrum Team](/guides/scrum/team/) then collaborates to define a [Sprint Goal](/guides/scrum/artifacts/sbl#commitment-sprint-goal) that communicates why the Sprint is valuable to [stakeholders](/guides/scrum/stakeholders). The [Sprint Goal](/guides/scrum/artifacts/sbl#commitment-sprint-goal) must be finalized prior to the end of Sprint Planning.

## Topic Two: What can be Done this Sprint?

Through discussion with the [Product Owner](/guides/scrum/team/po), the [Developers](/guides/scrum/team/developers) select items from the [Product Backlog](/guides/scrum/artifacts/pbl) to include in the current Sprint. The [Scrum Team](/guides/scrum/team/) may refine these items during this process, which increases understanding and confidence.
Selecting how much can be completed within a Sprint may be challenging. However, the more the [Developers](/guides/scrum/team/developers) know about their past performance, their upcoming capacity, and their [Definition of Done](/guides/scrum/artifacts/increment), the more confident they will be in their Sprint forecasts.

## Topic Three: How will the chosen work get done?

For each selected [Product Backlog](/guides/scrum/artifacts/pbl) item, the [Developers](/guides/scrum/team/developers) plan the work necessary to create an Increment that meets the [Definition of Done](/guides/scrum/artifacts/increment). This is often done by decomposing [Product Backlog](/guides/scrum/artifacts/pbl) items into smaller work items of one day or less. How this is done is at the sole discretion of the [Developers](/guides/scrum/team/developers). No one else tells them how to turn [Product Backlog](/guides/scrum/artifacts/pbl) items into Increments of value.

The [Sprint Goal](/guides/scrum/artifacts/sbl#commitment-sprint-goal), the [Product Backlog](/guides/scrum/artifacts/pbl) items selected for the Sprint, plus the plan for delivering them are together referred to as the [Sprint Backlog](/guides/scrum/artifacts/sbl).
Sprint Planning is [timeboxed to a maximum of eight hours for a one-month Sprint](../timeboxes). For shorter Sprints, the event is usually shorter.
