---
title: "TAGOS Framework"
project: TAGOS
---

We believe that [character](/framework/character) will define organisational success as we move into the age of AI and ML. Particularly showing the characteristics of resilience, resourcefulness, innovativeness, agility, humanity, and integrity. So we collaborate with people who have innovative ideas and who choose to help define the future of business operating systems and bring it to life today. We do that by creating our open source TAGOS Framework which takes a mindset and people first approach and which continually improves as wise people contribute.

::Alert{title="TAGOS is not yet ready for use!" type="warning"}
TAGOS is currently in development and is not yet ready for use. We appreciate your interest in TAGOS and encourage you to stay tuned for updates on our progress. If you are interested in contributing to the development of TAGOS, please visit our GitLab repository for more information on how to get involved.
::

The TAGOS framework is an open source project designed toward developing organisational agile character.

Unlike other frameworks, TAGOS takes a holistic approach to agile development, incorporating elements of psychology, organisational behavior, and change management. The framework aims to provide tools, techniques, and resources for developing the agile mindset and uses an approach of continuous improvement, seeking feedback from users and making regular updates to stay relevant and effective. Additionally, TAGOS will provide comprehensive documentation and support, including guides, tutorials, and a community forum.

### Why Another Framework?

Agile methodologies have become increasingly popular in recent years, as businesses seek to improve their agility and responsiveness to changing market conditions. However, many of the popular agile frameworks, such as SAFe and LeSS, focus primarily on processes and practices, rather than developing the agile mindset and culture.

### A Holistic Approach to Agile Development

To address this gap, a team of developers and agile experts is working on an open source framework called TAGOS that is designed specifically to develop the agile mindset. The framework takes a holistic approach to agile development, incorporating elements of psychology, organisational behavior, and change management. This approach aims to help individuals and teams cultivate the values, principles, and behaviors that are essential to achieving success in agile development.

### Developing the Agile Mindset

By focusing on developing the agile mindset, rather than simply implementing agile processes and practices, the TAGOS framework aims to help organisations achieve long-term success and sustainability in their agile initiatives. The framework provides tools, techniques, and resources for developing the mindset and culture of agility, including training materials, coaching guides, and assessments.

### Open Source and Continuous Improvement

The TAGOS framework is an open source project, meaning that it is freely available to anyone who wants to use it, modify it, or contribute to its development. The framework uses an approach of continuous improvement, seeking feedback from users and making regular updates to stay relevant and effective. Additionally, TAGOS provides comprehensive documentation and support, including guides, tutorials, and a community forum, to help users get the most out of the framework.

As the demand for agile methodologies continues to grow, there is a need for frameworks like TAGOS that go beyond processes and practices and address the cultural and behavioral aspects of agility. The development of this open source framework is an important step towards creating a more holistic and effective approach to agile development.
